CLI Geo category developer preview (#3404)
aws-amplify/docs: docs/cli/geo/maps.md

---
title: Maps

> description: Use Amplify CLI to create and manage maps to visualize GeoSpatial data in your app.

Reviewer: GeoSpatial data is not fully understandable and also not has weird casing.

Author: changed to geospatial

---

> Amplify CLI's `geo` category enables you to create and manage map resources used to visualize GeoSpatial data in your application.

Reviewer: Same feedback as above.

> You need to install Amplify CLI with the `@geo` tag in order to get the Geo functionality. You can use the following command to install this version globally.

Reviewer: Say that Geo is in developer preview. Therefore, you need to install...

Author: Added "Since the `geo` category is in developer preview, you need to install...."

```console
npm i -g @aws-amplify/cli@geo
```

## Setup a new Map

You can add a new map by running the following command from your project's root folder:

```bash
amplify add geo
```
```console
? Select which capability you want to add:
> Map (visualize the GeoSpatial data)
  Location search (search by places, addresses, coordinates)
```

> If you haven't set up the `auth` category already, the Amplify CLI will guide you through a workflow to enable the auth category.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you haven't set up the `auth` category already, the Amplify CLI will guide you to enable the auth category.
```

```console
? You need to add auth (Amazon Cognito) to your project in order to add geo resources. Do you want to add auth now?
> Yes

Using service: Cognito, provided by: awscloudformation
```

> Next, you can set a friendly name for the Map being provisioned. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, set a name for the map: 
```

```console
? Provide a name for the Map:
> StreetsMap
```

### Map Access permissions

> 

Reviewer: Provide an overview of what kind of authorization you can configure for maps. Then go into the workflows.

Next, configure the access permissions for your Map resource. You can scope permissions based on an individual user's authentication status.

```console
? Who can access this Map?
❯ Authorized users only
  Authorized and Guest users
```

> Select `Authorized users only` if only authenticated users can have read-only permissions for the map.

Reviewer: After reading the below, it doesn't sound like "read-only" is the right term. It's more like:
```suggestion
Select `Authorized users only` if only authenticated users are allowed to render the map.
```

Is my assumption correct?

Author: yeah these read-only permissions are used to render the map in the app

> Select `Authorized and Guest users` if both authenticated and un-authenticated users can have read-only permissions for the map.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select `Authorized and Guest users` if both authenticated and unauthenticated users can have read-only permissions for the map.
```

These read-only permissions allow rendering of the Map in user's application:
```
geo:GetMapStyleDescriptor,
geo:GetMapGlyphs,
geo:GetMapSprites,
geo:GetMapTile

> ```

Reviewer: This should not be here but rather in the https://docs.amplify.aws/cli/usage/iam section.

Reviewer: https://github.com/aws-amplify/docs/pull/3404/files#r679390695
You can remove this section if the comment above is addressed and the policy information is moved..

Author: Can I add these policies to the iam page post the developer preview, since the official CLI version does not need them.

For more information, refer [link to location service page](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/location/latest/developerguide/security_iam_id-based-policy-examples.html#security_iam_id-based-policy-examples-get-map-tiles).

### Map Pricing Plan
Amplify provides a set of questions to help you decide the pricing plan relevant to your application's use-case. 
These pricing plan related set of questions are presented to you when you add the first Geo resource to your application. 

> Once you chose the pricing plan, it will be automatically used for the subsequent Geo resources added to your application.

Reviewer: First tell me why a pricing plan is even important to me. Then say "Amplify helps you determine the best pricing plan for you by guiding you through a set of questions... etc."

Author: added "Amazon Location Service offers three pricing plans namely, `RequestBasedUsage`, `MobileAssetTracking` and `MobileAssetManagement` that require no up-front commitment, and no minimum fee.
You select one of the following pricing plans for the Amazon Location Service resources you create for your application.
"

Successfully set RequestBasedUsage pricing plan for your Geo resources.
```

```console
? Are you tracking commercial assets for your business in your app?
  No, I only need to track consumers personal mobile devices 
❯ Yes, I track commercial assets (For example, any mobile object that is tracked by a company in support 
  of its business)

? Does your app provide routing or route optimization for commercial assets? (y/N) no

Successfully set MobileAssetTracking pricing plan for your Geo resources.
```

```console
? Are you tracking commercial assets for your business in your app?
  No, I only need to track consumers personal mobile devices 
❯ Yes, I track commercial assets (For example, any mobile object that is tracked by a company in support 
  of its business)

? Does your app provide routing or route optimization for commercial assets? (y/N) yes

Successfully set MobileAssetManagement pricing plan for your Geo resources.
```

We advice you to go through the [location service pricing](https://aws.amazon.com/location/pricing/) along with the [location service terms](https://aws.amazon.com/service-terms/) (_82.5 section_) to learn more about the pricing plan.

> ### Advanced Settings

Reviewer: convert all ### into ## and #### into ###

You can optionally set additional properties of the Map. If you choose to skip, defaults will be set for these properties. 

```console
Available advanced settings:
- Map style & Map data provider (default: Streets provided by Esri)

? Do you want to configure advanced settings? 
> Yes
```

#### Map style & Map data provider

> You can pick a style for the map resource. The available map styles along with the data provider of GeoSpatial data are shown. To learn more about each of these map styles, please refer this [location service doc](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/location-maps/latest/APIReference/API_MapConfiguration.html).

Reviewer: geospatial

```console
? Specify the map style:
❯ Streets (data provided by Esri) 
  Berlin (data provided by Here) 
  Topographic (data provided by Esri) 
  Navigation (data provided by Esri) 
  LightGrayCanvas (data provided by Esri) 
  DarkGrayCanvas (data provided by Esri)
```

`Streets (data provided by Esri) ` will be the default option that will be used to set Map style, if you do not want to explicitly set this property. 

#### Set a default Map

> If your application uses more than one Map added using `amplify add geo`, the map that was added the latest will be the default. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you added more than one map via `amplify add geo`, the map that was added last will be the default. 
```

However, you can choose if the current Map should be the default for your application:

```console
? Do you want to set this map as default?
> No
```
Answering `No` will retain the previously set default.

> That's it! You can now render maps in your application. Follow the steps as listed [here]() for Javascript applications.

Reviewer: link missing

Author: TBA
